[core] [docs] (cgroups 24/n) Adding public docs for the Resource Isolation (#60183)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/ray-core/resource-isolation-with-cgroupv2.rst

--------------------------

If you are running Ray in a container (e.g. through Kubernetes), the container must have read and write access to the cgroup mount point. We can't cover all possible ways of running Ray in a container so here are a few examples that cover the most common cases:

Running in Kubernetes with Privileged Security Context
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To enable privileged pods in Kubernetes, you need to `set the securityContext <https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/security-context/#set-the-security-context-for-a-container>`_ in your podspec to privileged:

.. code-block:: yaml
   :emphasize-lines: 11-12

   apiVersion: v1
   kind: Pod
   metadata:
     name: ubuntu-privileged
   spec:
     containers:
     - name: ubuntu
       image: ubuntu:22.04
       command: ["/bin/bash", "-c", "--"]
       args: ["while true; do sleep 30; done;"]
       securityContext:
         privileged: true
       resources:
         requests:
           cpu: "32"
           memory: "128Gi"

Running in Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) with Writable Cgroups
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Since Running pods in a privileged security context can be risky, GKE allows you to use writable cgroups instead. See the `GKE documentation on writable cgroups <https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/writable-cgroups>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running pods in a privileged security context may not be acceptable for your use case. To avoid this, GKE allows you to use writable cgroups instead. See the `GKE documentation on writable cgroups <https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/writable-cgroups>`_.
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you're running in a bare container (e.g. through Docker), `you can use privileged containers <https://docs.docker.com/engine/containers/run/#runtime-privilege-and-linux-capabilities>`_.

.. _resource-isolation-vm:

Running Ray outside of a Container (VM or Baremetal)
----------------------------------------------------

If you're running Ray directly on Linux, the setup is a little more involved. You will need to:

1. Create a cgroup for Ray
2. Configure the cgroup to allow the user that starts Ray to have read and write permissions
3. Start Ray inside the cgroup

Here's an example script that shows you how to perform these steps. This is to help you run ray on a single node for tests and not the recommended way to run a Ray cluster in production:

.. code-block:: bash

   # Create the cgroup that will be managed by Ray.
   sudo mkdir -p /sys/fs/cgroup/ray

   # Enable the cpu and memory controllers for that cgroup.

>    echo "+cpu +memory" | sudo tee -a /sys/fs/cgroup/ray/cgroup.subtree_control

Author: This is an excellent catch. Thank you.

   # Make the current user the owner of the managed cgroup.
   sudo chown -R $(whoami):$(whoami) /sys/fs/cgroup/ray

   # Make the cgroup subtree writable.
   sudo chmod -R u+rwx /sys/fs/cgroup/ray

   # Add the current process to the managed cgroup so ray will start
   # inside that cgroup.

>    echo $$ | sudo tee /sys/fs/cgroup/ray/cgroup.procs

Reviewer 2: Maybe point out the fact that the process creating the ray cluster needs to be in the same cgroup as the cluster explicitly outside the example as well.

   # Start ray with resource isolation enabled passing the cgroup path to Ray.
   ray start --enable-resource-isolation --cgroup-path=/sys/fs/cgroup/ray

Usage
=====

> Resource isolation can be enabled and configured through both the CLI (``ray start`` command) and the SDK (``ray.init``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resource isolation can be enabled and configured when starting a Ray cluster using ``ray start`` or when running Ray locally using ``ray.init``.
```

just more consistent terminology with other docs/materials

> Enable Resource Isolation with the CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable Resource Isolation on a Ray Cluster
```

--------------------------------------

.. code-block:: bash

   # Example of enabling resource isolation with default values.
   ray start --enable-resource-isolation

   # Example of enabling resource isolation overriding reserved resources:
   # - /sys/fs/cgroup/ray is used as the base cgroup.
   # - 1.5 CPU cores reserved for system processes.
   # - 5GB memory reserved for system processes.
   ray start --enable-resource-isolation \
       --cgroup-path=/sys/fs/cgroup/ray \
       --system-reserved-cpu=1.5 \
       --system-reserved-memory=5368709120

Enable Resource Isolation with the SDK
--------------------------------------

.. code-block:: python

   import ray

   # Example of enabling resource isolation overriding reserved resources:
   # - /sys/fs/cgroup/ray is used as the base cgroup.
   # - 1.5 CPU cores reserved for system processes.
   # - 5GB memory reserved for system processes.
   ray.init(
       enable_resource_isolation=True,

>        _cgroup_path="/sys/fs/cgroup/ray",

Author: Good point. I've promoted it to a non-hidden arg in #60726.

   * - ``system-reserved-memory``
     - integer
     - See :ref:`defaults <resource-isolation-defaults>`
     - Memory bytes reserved for system processes. If set without ``enable-resource-isolation``, raises ``ValueError``. Does not include ``object_store_memory``, but Ray guarantees that system processes have ``system-reserved-memory + object-store-memory`` for the system cgroup.

.. note::

   If any subset of the options is specified, Ray will use default values for the rest. For example, you can specify only ``--system-reserved-memory``.

.. _resource-isolation-defaults:

Default Values for CPU and Memory Reservations
==============================================

If you enable resource isolation but don't specify ``system-reserved-cpu`` or ``system-reserved-memory``, Ray assigns default values. The algorithm uses the following default parameters:

.. code-block:: python

   # CPU
   RAY_DEFAULT_SYSTEM_RESERVED_CPU_PROPORTION = 0.05
   RAY_DEFAULT_MIN_SYSTEM_RESERVED_CPU_CORES = 1.0
   RAY_DEFAULT_MAX_SYSTEM_RESERVED_CPU_CORES = 3.0

   # Memory
   RAY_DEFAULT_SYSTEM_RESERVED_MEMORY_PROPORTION = 0.10
   RAY_DEFAULT_MIN_SYSTEM_RESERVED_MEMORY_BYTES = 0.5 * 1024**3

>    RAY_DEFAULT_MAX_SYSTEM_RESERVED_MEMORY_BYTES = 10 * 1024**3

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   RAY_DEFAULT_MAX_SYSTEM_RESERVED_MEMORY_BYTES = 10 * 1024**3 #10GiB
```

2. If the value is less than the minimum, use the minimum
3. If the value is greater than the maximum, use the maximum

Example
-------

For a worker node with 32 CPU cores and 64 GB of RAM:

.. code-block:: bash

   # Calculated default values:
   #   object_store_memory = MIN(0.3 * 64GB, 200GB) = 19.2GB
   #   system_reserved_memory = MIN(10GB, MAX(0.10 * 64GB, 0.5GB)) = 6.4GB
   #   system_reserved_cpu = MIN(3.0, MAX(0.05 * 32, 1.0)) = 1.6
   #
   # The total system_reserved_memory (including object_store_memory) will be 19.2GB + 6.4GB = 25.6GB

   ray start --enable-resource-isolation

.. _enable-cgroupv2:

How to Enable Cgroup v2 for Resource Isolation
==============================================

For Ray Resource Isolation, you need to make sure cgroup v2 is enabled and cgroup v1 is disabled. This is the default behavior on most modern Linux distributions.

The most reliable way to test this is to look at the mount output. It should look like:

.. code-block:: console

   $ mount | grep cgroup
   cgroup2 on /sys/fs/cgroup type cgroup2 (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,nsdelegate,memory_recursiveprot)

.. important::

>    If you don't see cgroup v2 or see both cgroup v1 and cgroup v2, you will need to disable cgroup v1 and enable cgroup v2 in "unified" mode manually.

Reviewer 3: another reference to unified mode.  Do we need it?
